# Prep Course Rules

## Sole Arbiters of Course Rules

App Academy is the sole arbiter of the course rules. We reserve the
right to add or remove rules at any time, and apply them as we see fit.
The purpose of this clause is to enable flexibility with regards to the
course rules.

## Attendance And Tardiness

Students will be allowed to set their own hours for solo work during the
prep course; however, it is ESSENTIAL that you are on time for your
pairing assignments. Lateness and tardiness show a lack of basic respect
for your partner and your instructors, and violations will be taken very
seriously. If for any reason you will not be able to make it to a
pairing session on time, you must notify us by email at
contact@appacademy.io.

## Learning Environment

Maintaining a focused learning environment is important for everyone.
Students are required to be focused and working at all times during
course hours.

## Et Cetera

This is not a comprehensive list of rules. You may receive additional
instructions from staff regarding staying on task, or showing respect to
peers and staff. It is important to follow these additional
instructions. If you are instructed to do something, you will be
expected to follow through.

## Zero Tolerance for Harassment

App Academy is a respectful and welcoming environment for all. We have a
zero-tolerance policy toward discrimination and all forms of unlawful
harassment, including but not limited to discrimination based on gender,
sexual orientation, race, or religious affiliation. Any student found to
behave in violation of this policy will be dismissed from the course.

## App Academy Intellectual Property

App Academy grants students access to its curriculum and other
proprietary materials for personal training. Any unauthorized use of the
curriculum is liable for prosecution under the fullest extent of
California and federal law.
