# App Academy Prep Course

## Quick Links

* [Assignments](#assignments)
* [Daily Workflow][workflow]
* [Daily Feedback Form][feedback-form-ny-2016-02-08]

[workflow]: ./workflow.md
[feedback-form-ny-2016-02-08]: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1z5Vc9tIRRh6_k3DhVaokz4vm9mRVjelB8fUGJRU28ls/viewform

## Summary

Welcome to the App Academy Prep Course! This is a short, part-time
course covering the fundamentals of Ruby programming. Its purpose is to
make sure everyone is up-to-speed on day 1, that way we can hit the
ground running immediately. You will need to complete and submit your
work before your cohort begins.

Please read through ***all*** of the material below.

## Schedule

This course designed to be completed part-time, online, while you are
employed and should require 15-20 hours a week for 4 weeks to complete.

The curriculum is organized into 4 weeks of readings and exercises to be
completed each weeknight. This should require 2-3 hours per day of
material.

Before this, however, there is another set of assignments labeled
"week0". These are some introductory readings and tasks that will need
to be completed before you move on to week 1.

Ideally, you will complete this in the 5-weeknights-for-4-weeks schedule
we have designed, but we recognize that many of your schedules do not
look like this. Whatever your schedule, be sure to follow the [daily
workflow][workflow] for each discreet "day" of the curriculum you
complete, whether you complete it in a single session, multiple
sessions, or crush through 2 or 3 "day"s in one huge Saturday cram
session.

## Piazza

[Piazza][piazza] is a question and answer forum geared towards
classrooms. This will be an invaluable resource for you and your primary
place to go for help, whether from App Academy TAs or fellow students
who have already struggled through the problem you're stuck on. Someone
will have an answer.

[piazza]: https://piazza.com/appacademy.io/spring2016/aa101/home

## Slack

You should have received an invite to join the [Prep Course Slack
team][prep-course-slack]. If you did not receive an invite, please email
admin@appacademy.io and we will add you.

Slack is a real-time chat service where you can talk with your fellow
classmates about the prep work and help each other out on the tougher
concepts. You're all doing the prep work together, so if you're
struggling to wrap your head around something, your cohort-mates will
usually be willing to explain what they understand. The reverse also
holds: sometimes you'll be the one who understands a concept that
someone else is having trouble with. You're encouraged to try to explain
it as this is a great learning opportunity for both you and the other
student.

[prep-course-slack]: https://app-academy-prep.slack.com/

## Prepwork Submission

You will be required to submit your completed prepwork before your
cohort begins. Once you are finished, please zip up the files and email
the zipfile (`.zip`) to **admin@appacademy.io** with the subject line
"`completed prepwork`". This file should include your _résumé_.

**NB:** If you've been _conditionally accepted_, you must submit the
prep work to us before you can schedule your final interview!

## Assessments

Once your cohort begins, we will give assessments throughout the course,
and some of them will test you on material from the prep-course, so be
prepared. Students can be dismissed for failing more than one
assessment. On the first day of class you will take a preliminary
assessment; it will **not** count against you if you fail it, but you
should use it to assess your own understanding of the material and to
help prepare for future assessments.

## Assignments

- [Week 0](./w0/)
- [Week 1](./w1/)
- [Week 2](./w2/)
- [Week 3](./w3/)
- [Week 4](./w4/)
