# Daily Workflow

## Pacing

Before you get into the daily routine, you should know that doing the
prepwork and following this routine is not a formula that guarantees
success. The goal of this course is understanding, so it's important
that you pace yourself accordingly. If you need to pause and sit with a
topic or find extra resources to help you, do it.

That being said, it's isn't necessary to dwell on one thing until you
understand it completely. Things later in the prepwork build on the
things at the beginning, so you will continue to practice things like
procs and methods throughout, and you'll see them in different contexts.
"Learn by doing" is one of our mottos here. By doing, eventually it will
become intuitive.

Even so, if you're attacking a problem and have no idea what's going on,
you should probably go back and review some of the previous material
until you have at least a jumping-off point. But if you review to the
point where you feel totally comfortable with the problem, you've
reviewed too much.

Your goal is to live in the _zone_&mdash;that healthy balance where you
know just enough to be dangerous and break stuff. In the zone, learning
feels more like playing. Your curiosity is activated and the questions
that arise naturally help you fill in the missing pieces. That's where
you'll learn the most. Feel free to tweak this process as needed to get
there.

## The Process

### Step 1: Do the Readings

Read the day's readings before starting the assignment. Instructions
for the day's exercises may not be available ahead of time; but
if they are, you should read those too.

### Step 2: Complete the Exercises

Work through the exercises and projects in the order presented. Don't
worry if the material is difficult or you get stuck&mdash;looking things
up is a normal and necessary part of writing code. Good resources
include Google and Stack Overflow along with your TAs and classmates on
[Slack][prep-course-slack].

Remember that this isn't a race. Your goal is understanding, not rote
completion. Stay in the _zone_.

### Step 3: Refactor

Refactoring is the process of restructuring existing code without
changing its behavior. Your first approach to a problem will never be
ideal; going back and refactoring your code is a good way to clean
things up, try new patterns, implement best practices, and become a
better programmer overall.

Don't spend too much time on this though. It's very easy to fall down a
rabbit hole here because as a beginning developer, you don't yet know
the patterns and concepts that make for clean code. That's okay. The way
you learn these patterns is by reading code, so make sure you leave
yourself time for the next step...

### Step 4: Read the Solutions

The best way to learn how to write good code is to read good code, so
this step is critical.

You should finish your own implementation and spend a little time
refactoring before you look at the solutions. Be sure not to _peek
ahead_; the concepts in the solutions will stick much better after
you've struggled through them yourself first.

### Step 5: Give Feedback

At the end of each day, you will be asked to give feedback on the
organization of the material and the effectiveness of instruction. We're
constantly working to fine-tune our curriculum, so please fill out the
feedback form to help us do this. Thanks!

[prep-course-slack]: https://app-academy-prep.slack.com/
